Ref: IRDAI/INT/CIR/MISC/82/3/2023
Date: 31.03.2023 

Ref: IRDAI/INT/CIR/MISC/82/3/2023
Date: 31.03.2023 

Sub: Guidance note - Board policy of the insurer on the commission structure 

1. This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 34 of
the Insurance Act,1938 and Section 14(2)(e) of the IRDAI Act, 1999 and
Regulation 8 of the IRDAI (Payment of Commission) Regulations, 2023, 
2. As the “Insurance Agents, Intermediaries or Insurance Intermediaries” (herein
after referred to as intermediaries) play a crucial role in the distribution of
insurance products, it is essential for the insurers to have a clear and transparent
board policy on their commission structure to ensure fairness, transparency,
compliance, efficiency, and industry reputation in the insurance distribution
process. 
3. The board policy on commission structures for intermediaries shall, at the
minimum, include the following key elements: 
i) Objectives and Principles: The board policy shall clearly state the
objectives and principles that underpin the commission structure. This shall
include promoting fair and transparent competition among intermediaries,
aligning incentives with customer needs, and encouraging efficient and costeffective distribution. 
ii)Fairness and Reasonableness: The commission structure shall be
reasonable and not result in excessive compensation for intermediaries at
the expense of customers or the insurer. Insurers shall ensure their
commission structure is commensurate with the efforts required to acquire
and sustain that type of business. This means intermediaries shall be
compensated fairly for their work, regardless of their size or bargaining
power.
(iii)
Good distribution practice: The Board policy on commission structure
shall encourage good distribution practices of intermediaries. This can help
enhance customer satisfaction, build a stronger relationship with the
customers, increase the insurer's market share and ensure compliance with
regulatory requirements.
(iv) 
Regular review: The board policy shall establish a standard review process
for the commission structure, which includes assessments of its
effectiveness, efficiency, impact on premium rates, benefit pay-outs,
penetration, alignment with customer needs and interests etc. The review
shall be conducted by the audit committee at least on an annual basis.
v) Market Conduct: The board policy shall outline the governance and
oversight mechanism for market conduct to ensure that intermediaries
adhere to high standards of behaviour and ethical practices. The board
policy shall recognise and address potential conflicts of interest due to the
commission structure, such as intermediaries recommending products not in
the customer's best interest to earn higher commissions. Furthermore, the
board may also put appropriate caps in absolute amounts in certain
segments, for example group products.
(vi) Monitoring and Reporting: The board policy shall establish reporting
requirements for the commission structure, which includes regular reporting
to the board of directors and senior management on the performance and
compliance of the commission structure.
(vii) Applicability: Any new commission structure shall not apply to already sold
policies. 

Overall, the commission structure of intermediaries shall be designed to promote fair
and transparent practices that protect policyholders' interests and encourage
insurance penetration. 