Ref: IRDAI/PP&GR/CIR/MISC/83/05/2024 
Date: 28 May, 2024

Circular
To,

All Insurers and Insurance intermediaries (Regulated Entities)

Re: Unsolicited Commercial Communications (UCC) through Telecom
Resources - TRAl's Guidelines
1.IRDAI would like to bring recent guidelines of Telecom Regulatory Authority of India
(TRAI) to the notice of all regulated entities, meant to curb Unsolicited Commercial
Communications (UCC) through voice calls or messages by using unauthorized
10-digit mobile numbers and landline numbers.
2.An IRDAI licensed entity (Regulated Entity/ies), sending a commercial
communication to its existing or prospective customers shall fulfil TRAI prescribed
regulatory requirements . A few important provisions of the Guidelines of TRAI in
this regard are as under:
2.1.Regulated Entities who wishes to send commercial communication to its
existing or prospective customers shall get themselves registered with any
of the Telecom Service Providers;
2.2. Regulated Entities shall use only the '140/160' numbering series (or any
other numbering series allocated / assigned by DoT/TRAI in future for
the purpose) for making commercial calls.
140 series (currently operational): Exclusively for promotional voice calls
to existing customers or prospective customers.
160 series (to be implemented by August, 2024 ): Exclusively for
transactional and service calls to existing customers.

Entities mixing promotional content with transactional/service calls on the
160 series is strictly prohibited.

Usage of any other 10-digit fixed/mobile number other than 140/160
series for making promotional/ service/ transactional voice calls (directly
or through agents) is strictly forbidden.
2.3.Registration of Headers for sending SMS messages
The regulated entities shall ensure that they register their SMS Headers
with any of Telecom Service Providers (TSPs);

Any commercial communication can only take place using registered
Headers assigned to the Regulated Entity/ies.
2.4. Registration of Content Templates
2.5.

Regulated Entities are required to get message Content Templates
registered with the Telecom Service Providers.Such registration is required for all type of contents viz fixed as well as
variable components;

The regulated entities shall ensure that they send their commercial
communication by engaging only Registered Telemarketers (RTMs) or
establish the direct connectivity with the Telecom Service Provider for this
purpose.
2.6. Onboard the Digital Consent Acquisition (DCA) system deployed by the
Access Providers for the acquisition of digital consent of the customers
and integrate the same with systems/ process.
Be responsible for maintaining he confidentiality and security of their
customer's data I information, prevention of misuse / leakage thereof,
and taking corrective I remedial measures in case of misuse/ leakage of
• such data / information by any person authorised by them or otherwise,
to handle such data / information including RTMs engaged by such
regulated entity/ies and their employees, agents, insurance
intermediaries, associate etc.
Take steps to spread awareness among customers, in local language as
well, about the remedial actions/ steps to be taken in various scenarios
such as ONO Registration, Registration of Complaints etc.
3. For further information, the regulated entity are advised to refer attached Important
Guidelines of TRAI for sending commercial communication or visit
https://trai.gov.in/tcccpr for further detail.
4. All regulated entities are advised to follow the above referred guideli es of TRAI in
letter and spirit